Hi, this is Surya Prakash Reddy having 4+ years of experience in IT industry and around 4 years of  
experience in DevOps and AWS (Cloud). Currently working as a DevOps engineer in HP Clobdata 
As part of my role, I am responsible to setup and Manage DevOps Cl/CD pipelines and Infra using AWS cloud.

In that position, I have worked on diff diff tolls like
--coming to DevOps 
SCM tools: Git.Github, GitLab, and TFS
Build Tools--Maven and Ant
Appsers we are using --tomcat and weblogic
Webservers--Appache
Static Code analasis---SonarQube
Artifact ---Nexus
CI/CD tool--Jenkins and Azure DevOps
Containerazions tools--Docker, Kubernetes
Continuous Deployment and Configuration Management-- Ansible


--Comming to Cloude side 
  I have worked on AWS
  --AWS(ec2,efs,ebs,ses, SNS, aws transfer family,route 53,SG,NACL,s3,IAM,AMI,RDS,VPC, Ecs, Eks , ECR)

--Comming to Automation --I have worked Bash Scripting

--Comming to OS level --I have worked on LINUX and WINDOWS

--comming to monitoring --I have worked on newrelic Nagioes, cloud watch and 24/7 and Grafan, Promethusis and Splunk.

--comming to Ticketing Tools   --Jira

____Comming to Our Roles and Responsibilites
• Created and Maintained Github repositories, branches and tags for multiple projects.
• Managing the projects in GITHUB repository.
• Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, merging conventions using GIT SCM.
• Configure Maven and Ant build with Jenkins based on type of project.
• Automating the Build process using Git and Maven.


• Responsible for Dockerizing applications.
• I am very good in writting Docker Files and Docker Compose files Then We are going to create Docker Custome Images and Containers
• And we have created docker volumes and Docker Networks
• Configured Docker private registry’s to maintain Docker images for future usage.
• I am Responsible for creating Kubernetes manifest files like daemon sets, replica sets, deployments, Service files and managing Containers and Pods.
• I am Responsible for creating & configuring  persistent volumes ,persistent volume claims in k8's.
• And for health purpose we are going to create live ness and ready ness probs
• Configured HPA and secrets and config maps 
• We have setup Managed and Self Managed Cluster using AWS Infra in K8’s.
• And we are going to implement CI/CD proccess into with Jenkins using Jenkins file that's why we are going to integrate
  with jenkins into git,maven,sonarqube,docker,nexus and k8's.      
•Configure Email functionality with Jenkins for sending notification for Job will be failure are success throug Email
•Configured Git with Jenkins and scheduled by jobs using Poll SCM option.
--Install CSR certificates and configure in AWS certificate manger and in web servers and In load Balancers
        

•Setting up Ansible control server. Managing Ansible hosts. Writing playbooks.

1) Creating Users , Groups, Assinging Users to Groups.
2) Copying Files and managining Permisions.
3) Start,Stop,Restarting Services.
4) Installation Of Softwares.
5) Deploying an Application. etc



-----Comming to AWS(ec2,efs,ebs,ses,aws transfer family,riute 53,SG,NACL,s3,IAM,AMI,RDS,VPC,Cloud watch,Certificate manager, ECS, EKS, ECR, AS, LB)
-----Azure(Subscription, Resource Group,Scale sets,Bastion Network, Storage, NetWorking(NSG, NIC and Subnets), Azure Monitor,Vnet,Subnets, 
          Vnet Pearing, VPN gateways, Azure Backup, Azure Monitor,ARN Templates, Azure AD and RBAC)

And Comming to CI/CD I have worked on Jenkins in that jenkins I have created Free style and Pipeline and Multibransh pipeline
  And I have worked on Master slave also in the Jenkins
In Jenkins level Whenever came request from Dev team That I will go and create New branch for developing the code and whoever wnat to access that particular branch I have given
As a DevOps Engineer and after developing the code again one more request came form Dev Team for setup CI/CD setup at that time We have to need configure CI/CD Job

In that Jenkins level We are using pipeline ---pipeline are two types 1)Diclarative 2)Grovvy Script
    --As of now we are using Grovvy Script in that script we have mentioned multiple stages 
      1)checkout the code from Git Hub
      2)Build the package
      3)test the code  
      4)Build the image 
      5)push the image to private repo for feature usage
      6)Deploye the app using K8's Cluster 
      7)and setups maven tool in
      8)Email

Daily Activities:-
==================

then I will check my jira dash board and check is there any tickets are assigned to me okay ....

is there any new tickets assigned to me based on priority worked on that....

Firt I need to check pods status all pods are active or not after that any pod status is down    ----we are going to check and resolve that

If any request came for setup CI/CD then We are going to create branch and configure CI/CD

then every day came some request from customers ...
after came request first create jira ticket and assigned  to who will be work and assign to him....
monitor site 24/7 in that we have configured all infra and monitor it....    ---If any server 
then I have monitored 4 fqs servers prod and non prod...
after that I have connected to dev team and dB team and monitored team....
we need to run scripts everyday like starting services and copy the files  to aws s3 bucket....


GIT
===
Enable branching strategies.
Managing git repositories using various git commands (like push, pull, merge, clone, branch, rebase etc..).
Resolving the merge conflicts.
Managing github/bitbucket user access by using CROWD server.

Jenkins
=======
Setting Jenkins server.
Master and slave configurations.
Managing Cl/CD jobs Managing Jenkins plugins.
Integration other DevOps tools like git, Maven, Ansible, SonarQube, Nexus etc..  


Docker
======
Setup Docker environment.
Writing Dockerfiles
Creating custom images
Setting up private Docker registry
Creating & managing containers


Ansible
=======
Setting up Ansible control server.
Managing Ansible hosts.
Writing playbooks and roles.


Kubernetes
==========
Setup Kubernetes environment on AWS or on-premises
Writing deployment files and service files
Managing containers on pods
Managing Kubernetes nodes
nilesh.soni@emorphis.in


What is stateless in k8's ?
At a very basic level, as the name suggests, the term “stateless” means that no past data nor state is stored or needs to be 
persistent when a new container is created. Stateless applications tend to include 
containerized microservices apps, CDN, print services, or any short term workers.


What is stateful in k8's ?
Stateful applications save data to persistent disk storage for use by the server, by clients, and by other applications. ... 
Persistent storage can be dynamically provisioned, so that the underlying volumes are created on demand. In Kubernetes, 
you configure dynamic provisioning by creating a StorageClass.


Helm helps in three key ways:

Improves productivity
Reduces the complexity of deployments of microservices
Enables the adaptation of cloud native applications


Why use Helm?
Writing and maintaining Kubernetes YAML manifests for all the required Kubernetes objects can be a time consuming and tedious task. 
For the simplest of deployments, you would need at least 3 YAML manifests with duplicated and hardcoded values. 
Helm simplifies this process and creates a single package that can be advertised to your 





Please find the attached profile and below details.

NP: Immediate Joining.


Regards,
Siva


What are the best practices we should follow in Dockerfile?
1) Try to use alpine images where ever is possible.
2) Don't install unneccessary packages/softwares in Dockerimage.We should have
   only minimal packages/softwares which are required to be run our application.
3) Try to reduce number of layes as much as possible, by mereging muttiple run commands
   into a signle command whereever is possible.





Friday--- 12:00 PM 4:30 Pm 2:00 PM 3:00 PM 6:45 PM
Sat: 11:30 pm L&T  1:00 PM

